1. Differences between ASP.NET Core over the classic ASP.NET?  
- Cross-Platform  
- High Performance  
- Open Source  

2. What is the MVC pattern?  
It's an architectural pattern that separates an application into three main logical components:  
- Model: Only hold the data and the business logic. They don't deal with HTTP requests.
- View: Views only display information.   
- Controller: Handle and respond to user input and decide which model to pass to which view. 

3. Purpose of .csproj file?  
- It tells .NET how to build the project.
- Lists all their dependencies
- Is used by the nugger to figure out which packages to download and copy to the project
- Contains all the information that .NET tooling needs to build the project. It includes the type of project you are building, the platform this project targets, and any dependencies on other projects or 3rd party libraries.

4. What is CoreCLR?  
It's the run-time execution engine provided by the .NET Core. It consists of a JIT compiler, garbage collector, low-level classes, and primitive data types.

5. What is the purpose of webHostBuilder()?  
WebHostBuilder function is used for HTTP pipeline creation through webHostBuilder.Use() chaining all at once with WebHostBuilder.Build() by using the builder pattern. This function is provided by Microsoft.AspNet.Hosting namespace. The Build() method’s purpose is building necessary services and a Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.IWebHost for hosting a web application.

6. What is CoreFx?  
CoreFX is the set of class library implementations for .NET Core. It includes collection types, console, file systems, XML, JSON, async, etc. It is platform-neutral code, which means it can be shared across all platforms. Platform-neutral code is implemented in the form of a single portable assembly that can be used on all platforms.

7. Explain about .NET Core Components.  
The .NET Core Framework is composed of the following components:
	- CLI Tools: Command Line Interface(CLI) tools is a cross-platform tool for developing, building, executing, restoring packages, and publishing. 
	- Roslyn(.NET Compiler platform): It is a set of an open-source language compiler and also has code analysis API for the C# and Visual Basic (VB.NET) programming languages. Roslyn exposes modules for dynamic compilation to Common Intermediate Language(CLI), syntactic (lexical) and semantic code analysis, and also code emission.
	- CoreFX: CoreFX is a set of framework libraries. It consists of the new BCL(Base Class Library) i.e. System.* things like System.Xml, System.Collections, etc.
	- CoreCLR: A JIT(Just In Time) based CLR (Command Language Runtime). CoreCLR is the runtime implementation that runs on cross-platform and has the GC, RyuJIT, native interop, etc.

8. What is middleware in .NET core?  
Middleware is software assembled into an application pipeline for request and response handling. We can use a middleware component for user authentication, for handling errors, and  for serving static files like JavaScript files, images, CSS files, etc.
These middleware components are built as part of the configure method’s application startup class. In the ASP.NET Core application, these Configure methods will set up a request processing pipeline. It contains a sequence of request delegates that are called one after another.

9. Explain the differences between value type and reference type.  
- A Value Type holds the actual data directly within the memory location and a reference type contains a pointer which consists of the address of another memory location that holds the actual data.
- Value type stores its contents on the stack memory and reference type stores its contents on the heap memory.
- Assigning a value type variable to another variable will copy the value directly and assigning a reference variable to another doesn’t copy the value, instead, it creates a second copy of the reference.
Predefined data types, structures, enums are examples of value types. Classes, Objects, Arrays, Indexers, Interfaces are examples of reference types.

10. Explain Microsoft Intermediate Language  
MSIL is the Microsoft Intermediate Language, which provides instructions for calling methods, memory handling, storing and initializing values, exception handling, and so on.

11.  What is an assembly?  
An assembly is a file that is automatically generated by the compiler which consists of a collection of types and resources that are built to work together and form a logical unit of functionality. We can also say, assembly is a compiled code and logical unit of code.  
Assemblies are implemented in the form of executable (.exe) or dynamic link library (.dll) files.  

12. What is a garbage collector?
Garbage collector frees the unused code objects in the memory.  
During the garbage collection process:  
- The list of live objects is recognized.
- References are updated for the compacted objects.
- The memory space occupied by dead objects is recollected. The remaining objects are moved to an older segment.
- System.GC.Collect() method is used to perform garbage collection in .NET.

13. What is caching?  
Caching means storing the data temporarily in the memory so that the data can be easily accessed from the memory by an application instead of searching for it in the original location. It increases the speed and performance efficiency of an application.

14. What is a delegate in .NET?
A delegate is a .NET object which defines a method signature and it can pass a function as a parameter.

Delegate always points to a method that matches its specific signature. Users can encapsulate the reference of a method in a delegate object.

When we pass the delegate object in a program, it will call the referenced method. To create a custom event in a class, we can make use of delegate.

15. What is boxing and unboxing in .NET?  
Boxing is the process of converting a value type into a reference type directly. Boxing is implicit.  
Unboxing is the process where reference type is converted back into a value type. Unboxing is explicit.  
```
int a = 10;      // a value type
object o = a;     // boxing
int b = (int)o;   // unboxing
```

16.   What is the use of manifest in the .NET framework?  
Manifest stores the metadata of the assembly. It contains metadata which is required for many things as given below:

- Assembly version information.
- Scope checking of the assembly.
- Reference validation to classes.
- Security identification.

17.  Explain different types of cookies available in ASP.NET?  
- Session Cookie: It resides on the client machine for a single session and is valid until the user logs out.
- Persistent Cookie: It resides on the user machine for a period specified for its expiry. It may be an hour, a day, a month, or never.

18. What is the difference between an abstract class and an interface?

- Abstract Class	
    - Used to declare properties, events, methods, and fields as well.	
    - Provides the partial implementation of functionalities that must be implemented by inheriting classes.
    - Different kinds of access modifiers like private, public, protected, etc. are supported.
    - It can contain static members.
    - Multiple inheritances cannot be achieved.
     
- Interface
    - Fields cannot be declared using interfaces.
    - Used to declare the behavior of an implementing class.
	- Only public access modifier is supported.
	- It does not contain static members.
	- Multiple inheritances are achieved.

19.   Explain localization and globalization.
- Localization is the process of customizing our application to behave as per the current culture and locale.

- Globalization is the process of designing the application so that it can be used by users from across the globe by supporting multiple languages.




